Update syntax in auto.rst chapter (#13343)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/proofs/automatic-tactics/auto.rst

     in finished scripts since it is both slower and less robust than explicitly
     selecting the required databases.

   :n:`with {+ @ident }`
     Use the hint databases :n:`{+ @ident}` in addition to the database ``core``.
     Use the fake database `nocore` to omit `core`.

   If no `with` clause is given, :tacn:`auto` only uses the hypotheses of the
   current goal and the hints of the database named ``core``.

   :tacn:`auto` generally either completely solves the goal or
   leaves it unchanged.  Use :tacn:`solve` `[ auto ]` if you want a failure
   when they don't solve the goal.  :tacn:`auto` will fail if :tacn:`fail`
   or :tacn:`gfail` are invoked directly or indirectly, in which case setting
   the :flag:`Ltac Debug` may help you debug the failure.

   .. warning::

      :tacn:`auto` uses a weaker version of :tacn:`apply` that is closer to
      :tacn:`simple apply` so it is expected that sometimes :tacn:`auto` will
      fail even if applying manually one of the hints would succeed.

   .. seealso::
      :ref:`thehintsdatabasesforautoandeauto` for the list of
      pre-defined databases and the way to create or extend a database.

>       Also :ref:`strategies4rewriting`.

Author: OK, moved it.  Too hard to find your original comment to reread. :-(

Programmable proof search
=========================

.. tacn:: auto
   :name: auto
.. tacn:: auto {? @int_or_var } {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }

   This tactic implements a Prolog-like resolution procedure to solve the
   current goal. It first tries to solve the goal using the :tacn:`assumption`
   tactic, then it reduces the goal to an atomic one using :tacn:`intros` and
   introduces the newly generated hypotheses as hints. Then it looks at
   the list of tactics associated to the head symbol of the goal and
   tries to apply one of them (starting from the tactics with lower

>    cost). This process is recursively applied to the generated subgoals.

Reviewer: I think it is problematic that this description is moved so far down below. IMHO it is short enough to be kept here.

         Given that this can be seen as counter-intuitive, it could be useful
         to have an option to use full-blown :tacn:`apply` for lemmas passed
         through the `using` clause. Contributions welcome!

   :n:`with *`
     Use all existing hint databases. Using this variant is highly discouraged
     in finished scripts since it is both slower and less robust than explicitly
     selecting the required databases.

   :n:`with {+ @ident }`
     Use the hint databases :n:`{+ @ident}` in addition to the database ``core``.
     Use the fake database `nocore` to omit `core`.

   Implements a Prolog-like resolution procedure to solve the
   current goal. It first tries to solve the goal using the :tacn:`assumption`
   tactic, then it reduces the goal to an atomic one using :tacn:`intros` and
   introduces the newly generated hypotheses as hints. Then it looks at
   the list of tactics associated with the head symbol of the goal and
   tries to apply one of them.  Lower cost tactics are tried before higher-cost
   tactics.  This process is recursively applied to the generated subgoals.

   If no `with` clause is givesn, :tacn:`auto` only uses the hypotheses of the

>    current goal and the hints of the database named ``core``.

Reviewer: Typo: "givesn"

This sentence could be merged into the description of `with {+ @ident }`.

   .. warning::

      :tacn:`auto` uses a weaker version of :tacn:`apply` that is closer to
      :tacn:`simple apply` so it is expected that sometimes :tacn:`auto` will
      fail even if applying manually one of the hints would succeed.

   .. seealso::
      :ref:`The Hints Databases for auto and eauto <thehintsdatabasesforautoandeauto>` for the list of
      pre-defined databases and the way to create or extend a database.

   .. tacn:: info_auto {? @int_or_var } {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }

      Behaves like :tacn:`auto` but shows the tactics it uses to solve the goal. This
      variant is very useful for getting a better understanding of automation, or
      to know what lemmas/assumptions were used.

   .. tacn:: debug auto {? @int_or_var } {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }

      Behaves like :tacn:`auto` but shows the tactics it tries to solve the goal,
      including failing paths.

.. tacn:: trivial {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }
          debug trivial {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }
          info_trivial {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }

   Like :tacn:`auto`, but is not recursive
   and only tries hints with zero cost. Typically it solves trivial

>    equalities like :g:`X=X`.

Reviewer: I don't think it is a good example. We could instead say that it is typically used to solve goals for which a lemma is already available in the hint database that is used.

.. note::
  :tacn:`auto` and :tacn:`trivial` either solve completely the goal or

>   else succeed without changing the goal. Use :g:`solve [ auto ]` and

Reviewer: There's a bug report related to this note: #5201
I don't know if you want to take advantage of this PR to attempt to fix it...

   These flags enable printing of informative or debug information for
   the :tacn:`auto` and :tacn:`trivial` tactics.

> .. tacn:: eauto {? @int_or_var } {? @int_or_var } {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }

Author: I could include it in this PR as a separate commit.  Would you point me to example code for deprecating a tactic?  I see a number for `VERNAC EXTEND` but not for `TACTIC EXTEND`.  Are they done the same way?

> .. tacn:: eauto {? @int_or_var } {? @int_or_var } {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }

Reviewer: Example:

https://github.com/coq/coq/blob/9a93f5836a5f7bab81384314ac11ff0aac7d1b7f/plugins/ltac/g_auto.mlg#L178-L190

   These flags enable printing of informative or debug information for
   the :tacn:`auto` and :tacn:`trivial` tactics.

> .. tacn:: eauto {? @int_or_var } {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }

Reviewer: We should also briefly document the new `bfs eauto` tactic.

Author: In the time-honored tradition of writers everywhere, I made something up.  Please take a look.

>       Note that ``ex_intro`` should be declared as a hint.

Author: Yeah.  `ex_intro` is a constant??  I see it's defined with `Register` in `Logic.v` and is undocumented.  474 uses of `Register` in the .v files.  Doesn't seem to be a tactic.

>       Note that ``ex_intro`` should be declared as a hint.

Reviewer: Yes, it is a constant: `ex_intro` is the constructor of the `ex` inductive type (`exists` notation). You can learn this by running `Print ex_intro`.
`Register` doesn't define anything, it makes it available to OCaml code (e.g. for tactics that need to manipulate this constant explicitly). See https://coq.inria.fr/refman/proof-engine/vernacular-commands.html#coq:cmd.register

      `ex_intro` is declared as a hint so the proof succeeds.

   .. seealso:: :ref:`thehintsdatabasesforautoandeauto`

   .. tacn:: info_eauto {? @int_or_var } {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }

      The various options for :tacn:`info_eauto` are the same as for :tacn:`info_auto`.

   :tacn:`eauto` also obeys the following flags:

   .. flag:: Info Eauto
             Debug Eauto
      :undocumented:

   .. tacn:: debug eauto {? @int_or_var } {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }

      Behaves like :tacn:`eauto` but shows the tactics it tries to solve the goal,
      including failing paths.

   .. tacn:: bfs eauto {? @int_or_var } {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }

      Like :tacn:`eauto`, but uses a
      `breadth-first search <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breadth-first_search>`_.

.. tacn:: autounfold {? @hintbases } {? @occurrences }

   Unfolds constants that were declared through a :cmd:`Hint Unfold`
   in the given databases.

   :n:`@occurrences`
     Performs the unfolding in the specified occurrences.  The :n:`at @occs_nums`
     clause of :n:`@occurrences` is not supported.

.. tacn:: autorewrite {? * } with {+ @ident } {? @occurrences } {? using @ltac_expr }

   `*`

>      If present, rewrite all occurrences.

Reviewer: Add the following so that it approximately reflects the intent:
```suggestion
     If present, rewrite all occurrences whose side-conditions are solved.
```

And maybe add a `.. todo` as well to signal that this may not work as described, with a reference to the issues Jason linked to.

         Goal forall P:nat -> Prop, P 0 -> exists n, P n.
         eauto.

      `ex_intro` is declared as a hint so the proof succeeds.

   .. seealso:: :ref:`thehintsdatabasesforautoandeauto`

   .. tacn:: info_eauto {? @int_or_var } {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }

      The various options for :tacn:`info_eauto` are the same as for :tacn:`info_auto`.

   :tacn:`eauto` also obeys the following flags:

   .. flag:: Info Eauto
             Debug Eauto
      :undocumented:

   .. tacn:: debug eauto {? @int_or_var } {? @auto_using } {? @hintbases }

      Behaves like :tacn:`eauto` but shows the tactics it tries to solve the goal,
      including failing paths.

>    .. tacn::bfs eauto

Reviewer: Missing space made this interpreted as a comment:

```suggestion
   .. tacn:: bfs eauto
```

      Like :tacn:`eauto`, but does a breadth-first search (i.e. the tactic
      checks all the relevant hints to see if one solves the goal before

>       recurring).

Reviewer: breadth-first search is more than this (it explores all "paths of length 2" before going to "paths of length 3"). Anyway, what about linking to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breadth-first_search) instead of attempting to explain this?

Author: Got it.  I had some doubt that this was doing a full bfs.  AFAIK, the kernel, monad infrastructure, Ltac, etc. are all designed around dfs and backtracking.  For efficiency, you'd want to save the resulting proof state for each successful hint at each level rather than repeating application of the hint (easy to code).  I'll have to look at that code sometime.

One thing I'd like to experiment with at some point is guiding the search in part by metrics on the proof such as the length of the goal conclusion(s), keeping only the best N results at any point.  That may solve some goals more efficiently and/or make useful progress for the user.

Reviewer: BTW, there are several implementations of proof search and the plan was to get rid of the legacy `auto` and `eauto` backend in favor of the most recently written `typeclasses eauto` which also has a bfs strategy BTW (while keeping the tactics of course). See #721.

Author: Ah, you worked on that!  We'll have to chat about it sometime.

.. tacn:: autounfold {? @hintbases } {? @occurrences }

   Unfolds constants that were declared through a :cmd:`Hint Unfold`
   in the given databases.

   :n:`@occurrences`
     Performs the unfolding in the specified occurrences.  The :n:`at @occs_nums`

>      clause of :n:`@occurrences` is supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     clause of :n:`@occurrences` is not supported.
```

.. tacn:: autorewrite {? * } with {+ @ident } {? @occurrences } {? using @ltac_expr }

   `*`
     If present, rewrite all occurrences.

   :n:`with {+ @ident }`
     Specifies the rewriting rule bases to use.

   :n:`@occurrences`
     Performs rewriting in the specified occurrences.  Note: the `at` clause on

>      the conclusion is currently not supported.

Reviewer: I would remove "on the conclusion" from here because even if using an `at` clause for an hypothesis won't trigger an error, it will not change the behavior either:

```coq
Parameter a b : nat.
Axiom ax : a = b.
Hint Rewrite ax : foo.
Goal a = a -> a = a.
intro.
autorewrite with foo in H at 2 |-.
(* rewrites both occurrences in H *)
```

Author: We should make `occurrences` work the same in all tactics (to the extent possible).  I would expect that's not technically difficult but requires changing a number of tactic and sharing more code between them.

     .. exn:: The "at" syntax isn't available yet for the autorewrite tactic.

        Appears when there is an `at` clause on the conclusion.

   :n:`using @ltac_expr`
     :token:`ltac_expr` is applied to the main subgoal after each rewriting step.

   Applies rewritings according to the rewriting rule bases :n:`{+ @ident }`.

   For each rule base, applies each rewriting to the main subgoal until
   it fails. Once all the rules have been processed, if the main subgoal has
   changed then the rules
   of this base are processed again. If the main subgoal has not changed then
   the next base is processed. For the bases, the behavior is very similar to
   the processing of the rewriting rules.

   The rewriting rule bases are built with the :cmd:`Hint Rewrite`
   command.

>    Also see :ref:`strategies4rewriting`.

Reviewer: Can you move this in the `seealso` box below?

   .. seealso:: :ref:`The Hints Databases for auto and eauto <thehintsdatabasesforautoandeauto>`

.. tacn:: autounfold {? @hintbases } {? @clause_dft_concl }

   .. insertprodn clause_dft_concl hypident

   .. prodn::
      clause_dft_concl ::= in @in_clause
      | {? at @occs_nums }
      in_clause ::= * {? at @occs_nums }
      | * %|- {? @concl_occ }
      | {*, @hypident_occ } {? %|- {? @concl_occ } }
      concl_occ ::= * {? at @occs_nums }
      hypident_occ ::= @hypident {? at @occs_nums }
      hypident ::= @ident
      | ( type of @ident )
      | ( value of @ident )

   .. todo PR: move occs_num here from the rewriting chapter?  clause_dft_concl is used a lot BTW

   :n:`in @in_clause`
     Performs the unfolding in the given clause.

   :n:`with *`
     Use the unfolding hints in all existing hint databases.

   :n:`with {+ @ident }`
     Use the unfolding hints in :n:`{+ @ident }` in addition to the database ``core``.

>      Use the fake database `nocore` to omit `core`.

Author: Yeah, we should hyperlink to a common description for commonly used bits of grammar rather than repeating the same text over and over.  That may be easier to do as a cleanup once the syntax has been updated everywhere.

   Unfolds constants that were declared through a :cmd:`Hint Unfold`

>    in the given databases.

Author: I don't understand "to the tactic syntax presentation".  Perhaps you would suggest how to word this?

>    in the given databases.

Reviewer: I mean this should be just below the `.. tacn::`

> .. tacn:: autorewrite {? * } with {+ @ident } {? @clause_dft_concl } {? using @ltac_expr }

Reviewer: @mattam82 (or @JasonGross): can you tell us what this optional `*` does?

Author: Can you guess from this?  The `*` passes a `~conds:AllMatches` to the lower level code.  `Naive` is the default for `~conds`.

The options are defined as:

```
type conditions =
  | Naive (* Only try the first occurrence of the lemma (default) *)
  | FirstSolved (* Use the first match whose side-conditions are solved *)
  | AllMatches (* Rewrite all matches whose side-conditions are solved *)
```

Reviewer: From this, I would conclude approximately that `*` means `autorewrite` will rewrite in all occurrences that match a single rewrite lemma instead of rewriting in only one place at once, and that it may do more progress in some cases because of this.

Author: This seems to be a bit of a mess.  Only some parts of the `occurrences` clause are accepted.  I guess the `*` is a workaround for not supporting the `at 1` form.  Would you mind turning my last example into something that works and verifying that the occurrence numbers are applied in H?

```
autorewrite * with True at 1.
(* The "at" syntax isn't available yet for the autorewrite tactic. *)
autorewrite * with True in |- * at 1.
(* The "at" syntax isn't available yet for the autorewrite tactic. *)
autorewrite * with True in H at 1.
(* Rewriting base True does not exist. *)
```

Reviewer 2: See https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/4976 and https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/7672

Reviewer 2: Also https://github.com/coq/coq/issues/1933#issuecomment-337497938 where @mattam82 seems to have given an explanation (in French) of autorewrite * in 2010

Reviewer: @JasonGross Thanks for your help. @mattam82's French comment about `rewrite*` and `autorewrite*` aligns well with the piece of code found by Jim but the issue opened by Samuel seems to indicate that `autorewrite*` does not actually work. We need @mattam82 to comment, so I'll ping him by e-mail.

In any case, the current documentation of `*` added in this PR is probably a bit too simple ("If present, rewrite all occurrences.")

>    .. seealso:: :ref:`The Hints Databases for auto and eauto <thehintsdatabasesforautoandeauto>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. seealso:: :ref:`thehintsdatabasesforautoandeauto`
```

.. tacn:: autounfold {? @hintbases } {? @occurrences }

   Unfolds constants that were declared through a :cmd:`Hint Unfold`
   in the given databases.

>    :n:`in @occurrences`

Reviewer: `@occurrences` already contains the `in`. You should just write down that only the `in @goal_occurrences` case of `@occurrences` is supported.

Author: Not quite that simple--`at` is not supported inside of `in @goal_occurrences`, either.

   This tactic may loop if you build non terminating rewriting systems.

.. seealso::

   :ref:`Hint-Rewrite <hintrewrite>` for feeding the database of lemmas used by

>    :tacn:`autorewrite` and :tacn:`autorewrite` for examples showing the use of this tactic.

Reviewer: We should also add a link to the "Strategies for rewriting" section of "Generalized rewriting". `rewrite_strat` is supposed to be a better `autorewrite`. Eventually, we might want to move the documentation of the two closer together.

maps head symbols to a list of hints.  Use the :cmd:`Print Hint` command to view
the database.

Each hint has a cost that is a nonnegative
integer and an optional pattern. Hints with lower costs are tried first.
:tacn:`auto` tries a hint when the conclusion of the current goal matches its
pattern or when the hint has no pattern.

Creating Hint databases
-----------------------

Hint databases can be created with the :cmd:`Create HintDb` command or implicitly
by adding a hint to an unknown database.  We recommend you always use :cmd:`Create HintDb`
and then imediately use :cmd:`Hint Constants` and :cmd:`Hint Variables` to make
those settings explicit.

Note that the default transparency
settings differ between these two methods of creation.  Databases created with
:cmd:`Create HintDb` have the default setting `Transparent` for both `Variables`
and `Constants`, while implicitly created databases have the `Opaque` setting.

.. cmd:: Create HintDb @ident {? discriminated }

   Creates a new hint database named :n:`@ident`. The database is
   implemented by a Discrimination Tree (DT) that serves as an index of
   all the lemmas. The DT can use transparency information to decide if a

>    constant should be indexed or not

Reviewer: The reference one line below doesn't seem to make sense anymore since it refers to the section we are currently in. Could you remove it?

:cmd:`Create HintDb`. If a hint is added to an unknown database, it will be
automatically created.

> .. cmd:: Create HintDb @ident {? discriminated }

Author: By "implicit" you mean those defined by Coq aka "built-in"?  What is the default transparency in either case?

The description for `Hint Constants ...` is poorly worded, please check what I changed there.

> .. cmd:: Create HintDb @ident {? discriminated }

Reviewer: No, I mean what is said just above the `Create HintDb` description: "If a hint is added to an unknown database, it will be
automatically created." When databases are automatically created that way, without the explicit `Create HintDb`, they do not get the same default transparency (this is stupid, but now we need to warn users against it).

See this example:

```coq
Hint Resolve I : foo.
Print HintDb foo.
(*
Unfoldable variable definitions: none
Unfoldable constant definitions: none
*)
Hint Constants Transparent : foo.
Hint Variables Transparent : foo.
Print HintDb foo.
(*
Unfoldable variable definitions: all
Unfoldable constant definitions: all
*)
Hint Opaque Nat.add : foo.
Print HintDb foo.
(*
Unfoldable variable definitions: all
Unfoldable constant definitions: all except: Nat.add
*)
Create HintDb bar.
Print HintDb bar.
(*
Unfoldable variable definitions: all
Unfoldable constant definitions: all
*)
Hint Constants Opaque : bar.
Hint Variables Opaque : bar.
Print HintDb bar.
(*
Unfoldable variable definitions: none
Unfoldable constant definitions: none
*)
Hint Transparent Nat.add : bar.
Print HintDb bar.
(*
Unfoldable variable definitions: none
Unfoldable constant definitions: Nat.add
*)
```

> .. cmd:: Create HintDb @ident {? discriminated }

Author: > "If a hint is added to an unknown database, it will be automatically created."

Not very well worded...it didn't immediately register that "it" refers to the unknown database.  Nor is the "optionally" in the previous sentence a good choice.  We recommend using `Create HintDb`, right?

> .. cmd:: Create HintDb @ident {? discriminated }

Author: Shouldn't we move toward requiring use of `Create HintDb` to help save users from typos?

> .. cmd:: Create HintDb @ident {? discriminated }

Author: How is this?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/99175439-c293b080-26bf-11eb-98a5-1c463ba0c36c.png)

> .. cmd:: Create HintDb @ident {? discriminated }

Reviewer: > Shouldn't we move toward requiring use of `Create HintDb` to help save users from typos?

Absolutely. But there is another change which is that hint databases should get qualified names and I'm not sure if the two changes interact or not.

Your proposed text looks good but I would word the recommendation even more strongly: We recommend to always create hint databases with the Create HintDb command and to follow with the Hint Constants and Hint Variables commands so that your choice of default transparency is made explicit.

   from the order in which they were inserted, making this implementation
   observationally different from the legacy one.

.. _creating_hints:

Creating Hints
``````````````

   .. todo PR: Alternatively, I could repeat this for each Hint command.
      What do you think?  I could have each command link back to this
      common section.

   The various `Hint` commands share these elements:

   :n:`: {+ @ident }` specifies the hint database(s) to add to.  If no :token:`ident`\s

>    are given, the hint is added to the `core` database.

Author: Why is `.. deprecated:: 8.10` useful?  AFAICT all it does is generate the italic phrase, plus you can't use it in the middle of a paragraph (which seems appropriate here).

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/99139439-64969880-25ed-11eb-89af-e85b6fde8df5.png)

>    are given, the hint is added to the `core` database.

Reviewer: It creates a uniformity of styling of the deprecation information. The fact that it forces you to make a separate paragraph might not be so bad. But do as you wish (as long as the deprecation information is there).

   The commands support the :attr:`local`, :attr:`global` and :attr:`export`
   locality attributes. When the locality is not given, the
   command is :attr:`local` inside a section and :attr:`global` otherwise.

>    + :attr:`local` hints are never visible from other modules, even if they

Author: Think I got all that.

   from the order in which they were inserted, making this implementation
   observationally different from the legacy one.

.. _creating_hints:

Creating Hints
--------------

   The various `Hint` commands share these elements:

   :n:`{? : {+ @ident } }` specifies the hint database(s) to add to.
   *(Deprecated since version 8.10:* If no :token:`ident`\s
   are given, the hint is added to the `core` database.)

   Outside of sections, these commands support the :attr:`local`, :attr:`export`
   and :attr:`global` attributes. :attr:`global` is the default.  Inside sections,
   only the :attr:`local` attribute is supported because hints are local to sections.

   When locality is specified, the

>    command is :attr:`local` inside a section and :attr:`global` otherwise.

Reviewer: This sentence is redundant with the previous paragraph. It can safely be removed.

   + :attr:`local` hints are never visible from other modules, even if they
     :cmd:`Import` or :cmd:`Require` the current module.

   + :attr:`export` hints are visible from other modules when they :cmd:`Import` the current
     module, but not when they only :cmd:`Require` it. This attribute is only supported for
     the :cmd:`Hint Constructors`, :cmd:`Hint Extern`, :cmd:`Hint Immediate`, :cmd:`Hint Resolve`

>      and :cmd:`Hint Unfold` variants of the command.

Reviewer: The set of commands supporting the attributes has just been extended so you can remove this sentence now.

   + :attr:`global` hints are visible from other modules when they :cmd:`Import` or
     :cmd:`Require` the current module.

   .. deprecated:: 8.13

     The default value for hint locality will change in a future
     release. For the time being, adding hints outside of sections without
     specifying an explicit locality will trigger a deprecation
     warning. We recommend you use :attr:`export` whenever possible.

   The `Hint` commands are:

   .. cmd:: Hint Resolve {+ {| @qualid | @one_term } } {? @hint_info } {? : {+ @ident } }
            Hint Resolve {| -> | <- } {+ @qualid } {? @natural } {? : {+ @ident } }
      :name: Hint Resolve; _

      .. insertprodn hint_info one_pattern

      .. prodn::
         hint_info ::= %| {? @natural } {? @one_pattern }
         one_pattern ::= @one_term

      The first form adds each :n:`@qualid` as a hint with the head symbol of the type of
      :n:`@qualid` to the specified hint databases (:n:`@ident`\s). The cost of the hint is the number of

>       subgoals generated by :tacn:`simple apply` :n:`@qualid` or, if specified, :n:`@natural`. The
>       associated pattern :n:`@one_term` is inferred from the conclusion of the type of
>       :n:`@qualid` or, if specified, the given :n:`@one_term`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      subgoals generated by :tacn:`simple apply` :n:`@qualid` or, if specified, :n:`@natural`. The
      associated pattern is inferred from the conclusion of the type of
      :n:`@qualid` or, if specified, the given :n:`@one_pattern`.
```

      If the inferred type
      of :n:`@qualid` does not start with a product, :tacn:`exact` :n:`@qualid` is added
      to the hint list.  If the type can be reduced to a type starting with a product,
      :tacn:`simple apply` :n:`@qualid` is also added to the hints list.

      If the inferred type of :n:`@qualid` contains a dependent
      quantification on a variable which occurs only in the premises of the type
      and not in its conclusion, no instance could be inferred for the variable by

>       unification with the goal. In this case, the hint is marked for use by
>       :tacn:`eauto` instead of by :tacn:`auto` and a warning is printed. A

Reviewer: Seems sufficient to me:

```suggestion
      unification with the goal. In this case, the hint is only used by
      :tacn:`eauto` / :tacn:`typeclasses eauto`, but not by :tacn:`auto`. A
```

      typical hint that would only be used by :tacn:`eauto` is a transitivity
      lemma.

>       :n:`<- and ->`

Reviewer: Let's be consistent between the `Hint Resolve` and `Hint Rewrite` presentation:

```suggestion
      :n:`{| -> | <- }`
```

   + :attr:`global` hints are made available by merely requiring the current
     module.

   .. todo PR: should the Hint commands be indented or not?

   The `Hint` commands are:

   .. cmd:: Hint Resolve {+ {| @qualid | @one_term } } {? @hint_info } {? : {+ @ident } }
            Hint Resolve {| -> | <- } {+ @qualid } {? @natural } {? : {+ @ident } }
      :name: Hint Resolve; _

      .. todo PR: not sure what to say if @one_term is provided

>       .. todo PR: what about @pattern mentioned below??

Author: #13375 will change one_term to one_pattern here, that should be clearer.

      .. todo PR: wordy paragraph, maybe should have a little table instead of writing

>          out all the conditions in words?

Author: I split it into multiple paragraphs, it's a bit more readable now.  The description list format doesn't seem so great given the long clauses "If blah blah blah ".

Is "In this case, the hint is added to the hint list of :tacn:`eauto` instead of the hint list of :tacn:`auto`" referring to different hint databases?  I couldn't guess what was meant.  Also, is the list and the descriptions under "Hint databases defined in the Coq standard library" current?  I only see these in the .v files:

```
Create HintDb core.
Create HintDb rewrite discriminated.
Create HintDb typeclass_instances discriminated.
Create HintDb program discriminated.
Create HintDb ordered_type.
```

Where are the others

>          out all the conditions in words?

Reviewer: Regarding hint list of `eauto` vs hint list of `auto`: this is a poor formulation. No, this is the same database, but some hints are ignored by `auto`. The general formulation of the type "the tactic foo bar" is added to the hint database is poor because various automatic tactics (`auto`, `eauto` and `typeclasses eauto`) might use hints in subtly different ways, and it is rarely a direct mapping of user-available tactics. Some hints are not used by `auto` but also some type of hints are only used by `typeclasses eauto`. The only actually separate hint databases are the `Hint Rewrite` databases.

I think the list of databases defined in the standard library is current (maybe not exhaustive). Many databases are defined implicitly / automatically when adding hints to them. `arith`, `bool`, `ord`, `map`, `set`, `fset`, `zarith`, `qarith` seem to be defined that way (found by grepping `"Hint Resolve .* : .*"`).

>          out all the conditions in words?

Author: I made it "... the hint is marked for use by :tacn`eauto`"

      of :n:`@qualid` does not start with a product the tactic added in the hint list
      is :tacn:`exact` :n:`@qualid`. However, in case this type can be reduced to a type
      starting with a product, the tactic :tacn:`simple apply` :n:`@qualid` is also stored in
      the hints list. If the inferred type of :n:`@qualid` contains a dependent
      quantification on a variable which occurs only in the premisses of the type
      and not in its conclusion, no instance could be inferred for the variable by
      unification with the goal. In this case, the hint is added to the hint list
      of :tacn:`eauto` instead of the hint list of :tacn:`auto` and a warning is printed. A
      typical hint that would only be used by :tacn:`eauto` is a transitivity
      lemma.

      .. exn:: @qualid cannot be used as a hint

         The head symbol of the type of :n:`@qualid` is a bound variable
         such that this tactic cannot be associated to a constant.

      The second form adds the left-to-right (`->`) or right-ot-left implication (`<-`)
      of an equivalence as a hint (informally
      the hint will be used as, respectively, :tacn:`apply` :n:`-> @qualid` or

>       :n::tacn:`apply` :n:`<- @qualid`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      :tacn:`apply` :n:`<- @qualid`,
```

      although as mentioned before, the tactic actually used is a restricted version of

>       :tacn:`apply`).

Reviewer: I would move the description of the second form above the error message (or rather make it into a description of `->` / `<-` in a description list as discussed above).

         .. coqtop:: reset all

            Require Import List.
            Hint Extern 5 ({?X1 = ?X2} + {?X1 <> ?X2}) => generalize  X1, X2;

>               decide equality : eqdec.

Reviewer: What about putting the newline before `generalize` so that the `ltac_expr` block is shown on a single line?

            Goal forall a b:list (nat * nat), {a = b} + {a <> b}.

>             Info 1 auto with eqdec.

Reviewer: This `Info 1` is useless. Let's remove it, or let put `info_auto` instead:
```suggestion
            info_auto with eqdec.
```

   .. cmd:: Hint Cut [ @hints_regexp ] {? : {+ @ident } }

      .. insertprodn hints_regexp hints_regexp

      .. prodn::
         hints_regexp ::= {+ @qualid }
         | _
         | @hints_regexp %| @hints_regexp
         | @hints_regexp @hints_regexp
         | @hints_regexp *
         | emp
         | eps
         | ( @hints_regexp )

      The `emp` regexp does not match any search path while `eps`
      matches the empty path.

      Used to cut the proof search tree according to a regular
      expression that matches the paths to be cut. Note that there is no
      operator precedence during parsing, one can

>       check with :cmd:`Print HintDb` to verify the current cut expression:

Reviewer: To me this description is completely out of order. For instance, the first sentence of the second paragraph should come first. The third paragraph (currently after the warning) should be moved up, closer to the initial description. The second sentence of the second paragraph belongs to a warning box.

Author: I think I've improved but I don't fully understand it (what exactly is cut, how is @ident a hint by itself, what is the current path).  OTOH I don't think I've lost any info that was there.  Please take a look.

Author: Is there a way to print the current cut expression and the current path?

Reviewer: See this artificial example:

```coq
Print HintDb typeclass_instances.
(* Cut: emp *)

Class foo := {}.

Set Typeclasses Debug.

Goal foo.
Fail typeclasses eauto.
(*
1: looking for foo without backtracking
1: no match for foo, 0 possibilities
*)
Abort.

Instance bar : foo := {}.

Goal foo.
typeclasses eauto.
(*
1: looking for foo without backtracking
1.1: exact bar on foo, 0 subgoal(s)
Finished run 1 of resolution.
*)
Qed.

Hint Cut [ bar ] : typeclass_instances.

Print HintDb typeclass_instances.
(* Cut: bar *)

Goal foo.
Fail typeclasses eauto.
(*
1: looking for foo without backtracking
1: no match for foo, 1 possibilities
*)
Abort.
```

      .. warning::

         These hints currently only apply to typeclass proof search and the
         :tacn:`typeclasses eauto` tactic.

>       .. todo PR: Should we keep/change 79 uses of nonbreaking space in the rsts?

Reviewer: These were often introduced on purpose to fix what would otherwise be badly rendered. So no, except on a case by case basis.

         :tacn:`typeclasses eauto` tactic.

      This command can be used to cut the proof-search tree according to a regular
      expression matching paths to be cut. The grammar for regular expressions is
      the following. Beware, there is no operator precedence during parsing, one can
      check with :cmd:`Print HintDb` to verify the current cut expression:
      .. todo PR: Should we keep/change 79 uses of nonbreaking space in the rsts?

      .. prodn::
         regexp ::= @ident   (hint or instance identifier)
         | _   (any hint)
         | @regexp | @regexp   (disjunction)
         | @regexp @regexp   (sequence)
         | @regexp *   (Kleene star)
         | emp   (empty)
         | eps   (epsilon)

>          | ( @regexp )

Reviewer: By removing the annotations, a lot of information has been lost. Thus, it should be reintroduced, for instance as a table.

Author: As I think you know, insertprodn/prodn doesn't make it easy to have annotations here.  Here's a crude and effective approach; the other way to do it to edit every line in common.edit_mlg plus a small code change to doc_grammar.ml.

Author: How do you set the cut expression back to `emp`?  Would you set this for a single proof or for larger chunks?

Reviewer: My suggestion was not to reintroduce the annotations in the `prodn` but rather to add a separate table that explains each production, like what is done in the documentation of `Tactic Notation`.

> How do you set the cut expression back to `emp`? Would you set this for a single proof or for larger chunks?

I don't think you can. You usually do this for every proof. I.e., you add hints / instances that would create trouble if they were used in any circumstances and then you add a `Hint Cut` to limit the way they can be used.

Author: Yeah.  I think we should show the productions and that a table in addition is overkill.  (You only asked that I reintroduce the information, while leaving the means up to me.)  Is that agreeable?

> You usually do this for every proof. I.e., you add hints / instances that would create trouble if they were used in any circumstances and then you add a `Hint Cut` to limit the way they can be used.

How do you make the following work for proof #2?  Would you make the `Hint Cut` local within a section just for proof #1?

```
Hint Cut foo.
proof #1
Hint Cut bar.  (now has the cut expression "foo | bar")
proof #2  (requiring foo)

Reviewer: > Is that agreeable?

Sure, it is.

To answer to your `Hint Cut` question, I'm far from being an expert but I would say, if you absolutely need to introduce a `Hint Cut` that will only be useful for the first proof, yes you can work your way with locality and modules or sections, but usually when you introduce a `Hint Cut` it is because this is something that is *always* desirable.

>       arguments :n:`@term ... @term`, the mode tells if the hints associated with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      arguments :n:`@arg ... @arg`, the mode tells if the hints associated with
```

>       :n:`@qualid` can be applied or not. A mode specification is a list of n ``+``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      :n:`@qualid` can be applied or not. A mode specification is a list of ``+``,
```

         .. coqtop:: all

            Require Import List.
            Hint Extern 5 ({?X1 = ?X2} + {?X1 <> ?X2}) =>
              generalize  X1, X2; decide equality : eqdec.
            Goal forall a b:list (nat * nat), {a = b} + {a <> b}.
            info_auto.

   .. cmd:: Hint Cut [ @hints_regexp ] {? : {+ @ident } }

      .. DISABLED insertprodn hints_regexp hints_regexp

      .. prodn::
         hints_regexp ::= {+ @qualid }   (hint or instance identifier)
         | _   (any hint)
         | @hints_regexp | @hints_regexp   (disjunction)
         | @hints_regexp @hints_regexp   (sequence)
         | @hints_regexp *   (Kleene star)
         | emp   (empty)
         | eps   (epsilon)
         | ( @hints_regexp )

      Used to cut the proof search tree according to a regular
      expression that matches the paths to be cut.

      For each hint :n:`@qualid` in the hint database, the current path `p`
      extended with :n:`@qualid`
      is matched against the current cut expression `c` associated with the
      hint database.  If the match succeeds the hint is *not* applied.

      :n:`Hint Cut @hints_regexp` sets the cut expression

>       to :n:`c | regexp`.  The initial cut expression is `emp`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      to :n:`c | @hints_regexp`.  The initial cut expression is `emp`.
```

      The output of :cmd:`Print HintDb` shows the cut expression.

      During proof search, the path of
      successive successful hints on a search branch is recorded as a
      list of identifiers for the hints (note that :cmd:`Hint Extern`\s do not have

>       an associated identifier).

Reviewer: This paragraph is useful but it would be better if it were just before the second paragraph ("For each hint qualid in the hint database, the current path p extended with qualid is matched against the current cut expression c associated with the hint database. If the match succeeds the hint is not applied."). The two could also be merged into a single paragraph.

      (``-``) of the identifier. For a mode to match a list of arguments, input
      terms and input heads *must not* contain existential variables or be
      existential variables respectively, while outputs can be any term.

      The head of a term
      is understood here as the applicative head, or the match or projection
      scrutinee’s head, recursively, casts being ignored. :cmd:`Hint Mode` is
      especially useful for typeclasses, when one does not want to support default
      instances and avoid ambiguity in general. Setting a parameter of a class as an
      input forces proof search to be driven by that index of the class, with ``!``
      allowing existentials to appear in the index but not at its head.

   .. note::

      + Multiple modes can be declared for a single identifier.  In that
        case only one mode needs to match the arguments for the hints to be applied.

      + If you want to add hints such as :cmd:`Hint Transparent`,
        :cmd:`Hint Cut`, or :cmd:`Hint Mode`, for typeclass
        resolution, do not forget to put them in the
        ``typeclass_instances`` hint database.

> .. _hintrewrite:

Reviewer: This label is only used once (earlier in this file). I would remove it and refer to the command instead.

.. cmd:: Hint Rewrite {? {| -> | <- } } {+ @one_term } {? using @ltac_expr } {? : {* @ident } }

   :n:`{? using @ltac_expr }`

>      If specified, :n:`ltac_expr` is applied to the generated subgoals, except for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     If specified, :n:`@ltac_expr` is applied to the generated subgoals, except for the
```

     main subgoal.

   :n:`{| -> | <- }`
     Arrows specify the orientation; left to right (:n:`->`) or right to left (:n:`<-`).
     If no arrow is given, the default orientation is left to right (:n:`->`).

   Adds the terms :n:`{+ @one_term }` (their types must be
   equalities) to the rewriting bases :n:`{*  @ident }`.
   Note that the rewriting bases are distinct from the :tacn:`auto`
   hint bases and that :tacn:`auto` does not take them into account.

   This command is synchronous with the section mechanism (see :ref:`section-mechanism`):
   when closing a section, all aliases created by :cmd:`Hint Rewrite` in that
   section are lost. Conversely, when loading a module, all :cmd:`Hint Rewrite`

>    declarations at the global level of that module are loaded.

Reviewer: This paragraph is not useful anymore now that this is presented in the same section as the other `Hint` command.

.. cmd:: Print Rewrite HintDb @ident

>    This command displays all rewrite hints contained in :n:`@ident`.

Reviewer: Maybe add some indentation to show that this command is specifically associated to the `Hint Rewrite` command.

Author: Got it.  Note "associated with" is the common usage.

> .. _removehints:

Reviewer: This label is never used so can be safely removed.

.. cmd:: Remove Hints {+ @qualid } {? : {+ @ident } }

   Removes the hints associated with the :n:`{+ @qualid }` in databases

>    :n:`{+ @ident}`.  Note: hints associated with `Hint Extern` currently (8.12)

Reviewer: I don't think it is useful to put the version number as this as always been the case and is not likely to change any time soon (because nobody's working on it). When it does change, the doc will be updated.

```suggestion
   :n:`{+ @ident}`.  Note: hints created with :cmd:`Hint Extern` currently
```

>       scrutinee’s head, recursively, casts being ignored. :cmd:`Hint Mode` is

Reviewer: The sentence on multiple modes above should be split out in its own note box. It's currently not visible enough (cf.  #13314).

      especially useful for typeclasses, when one does not want to support default
      instances and avoid ambiguity in general. Setting a parameter of a class as an
      input forces proof search to be driven by that index of the class, with ``!``
      allowing existentials to appear in the index but not at its head.

>    .. note::

Reviewer: The first note is specific to `Hint Extern` so should be moved in the `Hint Extern` description.

> .. _removehints:

Reviewer: We should introduce a new subsection title here. It doesn't make sense that these commands are listed in the "Hint databases defined in the Coq standard library" subsection.

Author: It made more sense to move the commands that were after the list of hint databases.  What do you think about removing the "Controlling automation" section--it's the only titled section in the chapter, all named subsections are under it.

Reviewer: Eventually, we should add more sections and possibly reorganize this page a bit. But in the meantime, I'm open to anything you decide.

.. cmd:: Remove Hints {+ @qualid } {? : {+ @ident } }

   This command removes the hints associated to terms :n:`{+ @term}` in databases

>    :n:`{+ @ident}`.

Reviewer: Description should be fixed. You can just say that it removes the hints associated to the `qualid` (and maybe add a note that hints introduced with `Hint Extern` currently cannot be removed).

Author: Would making the hints local be a partial workaround for `Hint Extern`?  If so, I'll mention.

BTW, IMHO it should be `associate with`, not `associate to`.

Reviewer: The best workaround is to make the hints non-global (e.g. using the `export` attribute) and carefully select which modules you import.

.. cmd:: Print Hint {? {| * | @reference } }

   :n:`*`
     Display all declared hints.

   :n:`@reference`
     Display all hints associated with the head symbol :n:`@reference`.

   Displays tactics from the hints list.  The default is to show hints that
   apply to the conclusion of the current goal.  The other forms with :n:`*`
   and :n:`@reference` can be used even if no proof is open.

   Each hint has a cost that is a nonnegative
   integer and an optional pattern. The hints with lower cost are tried first.

.. cmd:: Print HintDb @ident

   This command displays all hints from database :n:`@ident`.

.. _hintrewrite:

.. cmd:: Hint Rewrite {? {| -> | <- } } {+ @one_term } {? using @ltac_expr } {? : {* @ident } }

   :n:`{? using @ltac_expr }`
     If specified, :n:`ltac_expr` is applied to the generated subgoals, except for the
     main subgoal.

>    :n:`->` and :n:`<-`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :n:`{| -> | <- }`
```
